do you want to make money from your
social media followers that's probably a
silly question because the answer is
probably definitely yes especially if
you clicked on this video so in today's
episode of build your tribe I'm going to
be walking you through the top 10 ways
to make money on social media whether
you have a large following or a small
following I personally have some varying
degree of experience in all 10 of these
areas some of them I have actually done
myself some of these I have done myself
and I'm still doing myself to this day
and many of them I have coached people
who are in these industries I'm going to
be giving you these top 10 in reverse
order and they're going to be in reverse
order in terms of my opinion of what's
best not just which income source is
going to make you the most money but I'm
also going to be considering things like
how much time is it going to take you to
create how much effort are you going to
be required to put in what's the
longevity of this strategy heading into
the future what's the security or on the
other side the vulnerabilities of
implementing this income stream and I
highly encourage you to listen to this
episode all the way from start to finish
even if you're tested to jump ahead to
see what number one is or if one of
these things is something that you've
already heard of or maybe even already
tried out for yourself I encourage you
to listen to all 10 because you might
think of an idea for a new income stream
that ultimately could help set you
financially free or could be a
Difference Maker in your bottom line
Studies have shown that the average
millionaire has about seven different
streams of income and when I'm asked how
do you build multiple streams of income
the answer is actually surprisingly
simple and not that complex and it's one
at a time you don't build multiple
streams of successful income all at once
that would be impossible it's impossible
to juggle all of those balls instead you
pick one stream of income and I really
just believe that you should pick I
don't believe that there is necessarily
one like golden ticket to becoming
financially free or one special kind of
income that's just like way better than
the rest I definitely you know I'm going
through this top 10 there will
definitely be some that I believe are
better than others but ultimately even
if you pick number 10 on this list you
can with the right amount of time and
strategy and effort make it a success
and then ultimately you can put it on
autopilot or you can make it mostly
passive and then you can focus on other
streams of income that's another factor
that I'm going to consider in this top
10 is how passive can you make this
stream of income of course I don't
believe that any form of income is truly
100% passive besides maybe like an
inheritance every other stream of income
requires some amount of effort whether
that's a large amount of effort upfront
to set things up and then things kind of
take care of themselves or a decent
amount of capital or money that you have
to invest early on in order to get
systems in place or to put a team around
you pretty much every form of income
requires at least some amount of
activity or effort at some point nothing
is truly 100% passive but in this top 10
list I am going to consider how passive
these different streams of income can be
and how much work it's going to take for
you to make each of these streams of
income truly passive and of course these
are streams of income that are specific
to social media while a lot of these
streams of income might be possible to
be executed off of social media and
while there are definitely many other
streams of income that are not included
in today's episode that don't exist on
social media like I can give you one off
the top of my head investing investing
dividends and returns is a stream of
income and a pretty significant stream
of income for many people but you don't
really invest in social media accounts
you can't really invest through social
media so that's not one that we're going
to be covering today instead we're going
to kick off this top 10 with gifts and
or donations these are things that you
often see probably the most obvious
example is during like Tik Tok live
streams or twitch live streams where the
person who is going live is thanking the
people who are watching for their
donations that's really the only time
that we see donations as a significant
source of income but if you're not a big
streamer with hundreds or thousands of
people watching your live streams you're
probably not going to be making that
much money from gifts or donations
similarly Instagram has a platform where
you can gift people what's called badges
during their Instagram lives and it
equates to 99 C or $2.99 for every gift
Instagram also has a thing called gifts
where people who are watching your reals
can send you like little monetary gifts
or tips if you will but it's just not
really used it's not something that's
super reliable again unless you are that
Niche case that that specific person who
is a streamer who has a lot of views
you're probably not going to be making
all that much money from gifts and
donations of course besides just Tik
Tock live and twitch streamers there are
exceptions to this there are some
artists who make a lot of money off of
gifts and donations there are of course
nonprofits who make their entire income
off of gifts and donations but for most
content creators for most business
owners uh or personal brands on social
media gifts and donations aren't going
to make that big of a difference and
really before we go any further in this
top 10 I think it's important that I
note that there are exceptions to every
rule even something that I rank at
number one might be in 10th place for
someone else and something that I put in
10th place might be number one for
someone else there are exceptions to
every rule what I'm sharing with you
today is my own tips and recommendations
based off my own personal experience and
expertise and I will be sharing some
statistics and some numbers and some
case studies that maybe sway you one way
or another But ultimately this is my
opinion all right number nine is going
to disappoint a lot of people because
it's something that people who aren't
super familiar with making money as a
content creator um oftentimes think is
how content creators influencers and
brands are making money on social media
and it's pay per-view on YouTube it's
YouTube AdSense on Tik Tok it's the
Creator fund on Instagram it's things
like the reals bonuses program and the
pay-per-view program and it's
essentially where the social media
platform is paying you a certain amount
of money based off the amount of views
that you're getting and while there are
definitely creators who are making tens
of thousands hundreds of thousands maybe
even a select few who are making
millions of dollars every single month
from this pay-per-view system for most
people it's pennies for most people you
might make 20 bucks maybe 50 bucks a
month here or there and that's with
getting tens of thousands or hundreds of
thousands of views unless you're getting
consistently Millions upon millions of
views you're not going to get paid all
that much by the social networks I will
say YouTube seems to be the best in this
category they seem to be the platform
that that pays the most and that pays
the most consistently and I think that's
because really they are paying a
percentage of their revenue and they're
very transparent about how much they're
paying out each year whereas Tik Tok and
Instagram it could be high one month low
the next and it seems very variable and
inconsistent and just ultimately
something that I don't think is very
secure or reliable and so while you
might make more money than you would
just relying on gifts and donations
you're still not making all that much
and it's really the biggest
differentiator and the reason it's so
low on this list is because it's just
really insecure and not reliable it's
really something that you don't have a
good grasp on it's like driving at 90
mph with only one finger on the steering
wheel it's just not very safe all right
number eight is kind of like a
combination of number nine and number 10
and it is inapp subscriptions so YouTube
recently rolled out its own subscription
platform Instagram rolled out Instagram
subscribers a few years ago and Tik Tok
is rumored to be working on something
similar it's essentially where your
followers can opt in to pay you a
monthly fee it's usually a relatively
low monthly fee like $5 to $10 per month
and for that monthly fee they might
unlock exclusive benefits special
content bonus perks things like that
subscriptions for some big creators can
definitely result in a very high income
we're talking tens of thousands hundreds
of thousands millions of dollars per
month but in reality that is for the 1%
that is for the content creators who
have a massive following of not just
followers but fans who want that
exclusive content it's also for Content
creators who are making content that
isn't necessarily revolving around a
business or a brand they're making
content around maybe like a video game
or their art or something like that and
while subscriptions might be absolutely
amazing for some people for the average
person who has a relatively low
following or who is trying to build a
real business business or brand on
social media subscriptions aren't really
going to be a real Difference Maker also
most social media platforms do take a
pretty big chunk out of your
subscriptions Instagram currently takes
0% which sounds awesome but the App
Store ends up taking 30% of that
subscription Revenue so you're really
only making 70 cents on every dollar
that people are subscribed to you so
again it's something that can be really
effective if you have a large audience
but it takes a lot of time to build a
large subscriber base and it's really
only for specific specific niches all
right number seven in my opinion is
selling physical products now of course
there is a wide variety of what I could
mean by physical products we could be
talking about something as small as like
a pack of stickers or something as big
as like home like we think of like real
estate agents on Instagram or on Tik Tok
ultimately what we've seen is that
physical products let's talk first and
foremost about the products that you are
actually creating yourself it takes a
lot of time and a lot of energy and
often times a lot of money to create and
to formulate and to package and to
warehouse and to ship your physical
products now there are definitely some
physical products that just sell better
than others some physical products that
have better margins than others some
physical products that are easier to
sell than others right like it's much
easier to sell a water bottle on social
media than it is to sell a house on
social media and of course because of
that wide difference the income
potential varies as well but generally
speaking and you'll notice this as we
get higher up in this digital list
people are in this digital world and so
they want digital products digital Goods
Digital Services we'll talk about all
those in just a second and so often
times getting people to want physical
things while they're shopping in a
digital world can be a little bit more
challenging again not impossible
definitely not the case for all people
people definitely buy things that are of
the physical world all day on social
media but when it comes to actually
selling uh as a brand building a
following around a physical product it
can be more challenging than say
building a following around a digital
product number six is something on the
list that might anger some people it
might anger you that I'm lumping these
two things together but it is network
marketing and master resale rights now
let me say this about both of these two
things when done wrong they can be very
scammy very sleazy very inauthentic bad
business and they can take advantage of
people when done right they can really
provide people with a foundation of how
to do business online they can be a
great way for people to introduce
themselves to things like promoting and
selling and putting their face on camera
and marketing on social media without
having to do as much leg work into
creating their own products or their own
brand recognition or credibility and so
I don't think that Master resale rights
or network marketing is necessarily a
business that I would recommend that you
do for the rest of your life I do think
that if you're in the short term and you
need uh maybe a Kickstart or a leg up or
you need to uh just learn the skills of
what it's like to do business on social
media these can be great entryways great
gateways to learn more about those
strategies and and kind of practice
without having to do all the work of
creating your own products that's really
what these two things boil down to and
why I've lumped them together is that in
both network marketing and master resale
rights you are ultimately selling
something that someone else has created
you're kind of like a salesperson in a
way and so you also will be paid based
off what you can sell according to zip
recruiter the average person in network
marketing makes around4 $5,000 per year
but if you Google it and you Google
different companies you can find that
that really varies from person to person
and that average of 45,000 per year
includes the top 1% who is making tens
of millions and it includes the vast
majority who aren't making all that much
I also think that neither network
marketing nor Master resell rights is
necessarily the most secure or stable
long-term business plan simply because
you're putting a lot of the control of
your own business in someone else's
hands there are so many examples of
network marketing companies shutting
down without really letting any of their
people in the company know ahead of time
there are plenty of examples of people
who are selling some course or who are a
part of Master resell rights and the
person who created the course basically
says hey you're not allowed to sell for
us anymore you're not allowed to sell
the course or you're not allowed to have
those Master resell rights anymore we've
revoked access that happens almost on a
daily basis and so I'm not trying to
scare you but I am trying to be honest
network marketing and master research
rights do provide a lot of benefits in
the areas of knowledge and the expertise
and the practice network marketing and
master resell rights provide a lot of
benefits such as the experience that you
can gain and the knowledge the things
that you can learn along the way however
when done wrong there are a lot of
problems with these business models as
well all right now we are on to the
upper half of this list number five in
my opinion and this one is especially
great for you if you have a relatively
low following but you have the skills of
social media you make what you believe
is good content quality content creating
content is something that maybe brings
you Joy it makes you happy it's not very
hard for you to create content maybe
you're someone who loves editing or you
love putting your face on camera well
then this one is for you and number five
is
ugc which stands for user generated
content user generated content is
essentially when you as a content
creator make an advertisement or a
promotion or a review or a video of a
product and you give it to the brand to
use the video so let's think about like
toothpaste maybe you have a specific
brand of toothpaste that you love and
you use every day and maybe you've even
seen great results from it you're going
to make a 60-second video reviewing the
toothpaste talking about how it's been
so beneficial for you and your teeth are
so much whiter now and your breath
always smells fresh and you're going to
create this video and you are then going
to sell it to the brand so that they
have permission to post it on their own
social media use it in their own ads or
whatever they want to do with it and
they're going to pay you a fee for that
the beauty of this is that you don't
have to post it on your own social media
you don't have to post it on your own
Instagram or your own Tik Tok and the
brand doesn't really care if you do
because you have a relatively low
following that's the beauty of this you
don't need you know a massive audience
in order for Brands to recognize that
hey this person can create great content
now getting on these Brands Radars is
what's going to be a little bit tougher
I would also argue that being a great
content creator who also doesn't have a
very large following can sometimes be a
challenge because often times as you
become a great content creator you do
build this large following and you do
have videos that perform well and help
you grow so then it really becomes well
I have these skills and so those skills
translated into following and now I
don't have a small following anymore but
it's absolutely the case and I know many
people who are amazing content creators
but for whatever reason they have just
struggled to grow on social media and so
creating content for Brands can be a
really effective way for them to make
thousands tens of thousands maybe even
hundreds of thousands of dollars every
single month through ugc content and I
realized I just said ugc content which
is user generated content content but
you get what I mean if you want to learn
more about ugc and how do you actually
get on a Brand's radar how do you get
them to pay you how much should they pay
you all those sorts of things I did an
interview a few months back on build
your tribe with Julie Solomon so if you
look up that episode you'll find it and
uh I basically picked her brain she's an
expert in that area and I got all the
questions about how much do you charge
when do you charge how do you pitch how
do you find the right person to work
with and the right companies to work
with so definitely check that out if
you're interested in ugc number four in
this top 10 is just a step up from ugc
with a slight minor difference number
four is brand Partnerships or
sponsorships and this is essentially
where the brand is paying you not just
to create this video for them but then
to also post it for your own audience to
see for your followers to engage with
this is usually because because the
brand sees that you have a large
audience or at least you have a very
engaged audience and so they're paying
you not just for your skills and your
time to create the video but they're
paying you for that exposure and that
recommendation to your audience as well
and so because of these additional
factors usually brand Partnerships and
sponsorships end up being more valuable
and paying out more money than just ugc
in fact according to one study on
average Brands spend
$2,075 per Creator per campaign pign for
brand Partnerships and that $2,000 per
Creator is expected to go up because
2third of Brands say that they plan on
increasing their budgets for quote
unquote influencer Marketing in 2025 now
influencer marketing is another term for
brand Partnerships or sponsorships I
prefer to say brand Partnerships or
sponsorships because I don't think very
many of us view ourselves as influencers
I don't view myself as an influencer and
oftentimes the word influencer itself
just has a negative connotation and so I
like to say brand Partnerships or
Creator deals or Creator sponsorships or
Brands sponsoring creators but
influencer marketing is another term for
the same thing I can tell you that for
myself personally depending on the month
brand Partnerships are either my second
or my third most profitable Revenue
stream doing oftentimes tens of
thousands of dollars per month in these
brand Partnerships and of course it's
taken me a long time to build an
audience of 700,000 followers on
Instagram and I have a very engaged
enged audience and I make a lot of
content for them and I pour a lot of
effort into the brand Partnerships that
I do so over time I've built it up to
the level that it's at today but I tell
you that because it can be a very very
profitable Revenue stream especially if
you're someone who has a very loyal
large or engaged following but of course
both ugc and brand Partnerships
ultimately lack some degree of security
because you're relying on someone else
to pay you and that's really the common
thread of number four four through
number 10 is you're relying on some
other company to pay you which
ultimately while you might still be a
content creator and an entrepreneur
ultimately it kind of makes you like an
employee and there's nothing wrong with
being an employee there's nothing wrong
with having someone uh pay you for your
wages I'm not saying there's anything
wrong with that but what I am saying is
that it's slightly less secure than if
it's totally within your own control and
so that's why all three of these top
three are ultimately you selling your
own things or at least you selling
something where you're making the money
from it directly and that's why number
three is selling Digital Services
Digital Services might include things
like virtual coaching via Zoom they
might include things like audits or
reviews where someone's going to take a
look at your calendar and tell you how
you could optimize it take a look at
your YouTube page and tell you how you
could get more views take a look at your
taxes and tell you how you could save
money here or there basically any
service that you could think of but
provided virtually and the benefit of
selling Digital Services is a few things
first and foremost let's talk about
Revenue typically Digital Services are
going to be higher ticket which
basically means they're going to be more
expensive a 1hour one-on-one coaching
call is likely going to cost more than
something like a course and that's
because it's very high touch it's very
human to human it's very Hands-On so
people expect to pay more and also
people usually charge more I've seen
people selling coaching online for as
little as $100 an hour hour and I've
also seen people sell coaching online
for as expensive as get this
$35,000 an hour It ultimately goes back
to the value of that person's time their
expertise the knowledge and also the
benefits that that coach can deliver
another benefit for you who is selling
digital products is that they're
relatively easy to create I mean if you
think about like one-on-one coaching all
you really need is like a zoom account
and I guess you technically don't even
need an account on Zoom you could just
like give someone your phone number and
FaceTime them for the coaching call I
wouldn't recommend that but I say that
to just back up my point that you don't
have to spend a lot of time money or
effort creating these Digital Services
you could just sell someone in your
Instagram DMS and then when they're
ready to purchase they could PayPal you
or venmo you the money and then you
could set up a call on zoom and talk to
them phone to phone or computer to
computer it's relatively easy to set up
coaching calls and most other Digital
Services as well usually just require
like a checkout page and maybe whatever
software or techn technology in order to
facilitate the digital service but it's
relatively easy to distribute you of
course don't have to pay for like
warehousing or shelving or shipping you
don't have to pay for things uh like
getting the product created because the
product is just the service that you're
providing number two in my top 10 ways
to make money online on social media in
2024 is to sell digital products similar
to Digital Services what's great is you
don't have to Warehouse them you don't
have to ship them you don't have to go
through all of the hurdles and headaches
of actually creating this like physical
product that is having to be
manufactured somewhere and so for all of
those reasons it's easy to create one of
my favorite reasons that I put it
slightly above Digital Services is that
it's that much easier to distribute
earlier in today's episode we talked
about things that can be passive and I
truly believe that digital products are
the most passive of any kind of thing
that you can sell any sort of product
that you can sell or any real income
stream that you can create online and
that's because digital products can be
easily duplicated you only have so many
hours in the day so if you're selling
Digital Services like coaching calls you
can only coach for so many hours per day
but if you're selling a digital product
like a course or an ebook or a guide or
something like that it's very easy to
distribute all you need is someone's
email and then you can just copy the
same document and duplicate it over and
over and over and over again it can
probably be done for you automatically
and be sent out to them so you have
really cut back on a lot of the time
energy and effort that is needed you
don't need to coach every single one of
your students oneon-one for an hour you
could instead just create an ebook one
time and then send it out to all of your
students who purchase it whenever they
purchase it in fact
35.7% of creators sell courses it's kind
of a crazy stat when I first heard it
that means over one out of three
creators online is selling some kind of
course and essentially this boils down
to the notion that knowledge is power
and people are willing to pay for
knowledge so if you have some sort of
expertise something that you've learned
over time something that you are better
at than most people something that
you've figured out some challenge in
your life that you have a solution for
you can package it up in something typed
out like an ebook or something on video
like a course and then sell it to people
on your social media now of course this
does require some amount of following
and typically the more followers you
have the more potential customers you
have but as I've talked about many times
in build your tribe it's not a necessity
you can have a very successful online
business with less than a thousand
followers it will ultimately just go
back to how much do you want to make how
much are you selling your course for and
how strong of relationships or bonds do
you have with those thousand followers
if you have an amazing relationship with
all thousand of those those followers if
your product is very expensive but it
also very clearly solves a big problem
that all 10,000 followers have well then
you could sell that course to all 1,000
of your followers and make a big amount
of money ultimately it just depends on
those variables and how you can adjust
and play with each of them another
statistic this one comes from forb is
that the digital Goods Market is
expected to grow from 54 billion
annually to 74 billion annually by 2020
again another crazy statistic and it
just goes to show us that even though a
third of creators already sell courses
and so many people have already bought
and invested in courses there's even
more money to be made even more people
to be served even more customers out
there now before we move on to number
one let me just say that I think digital
products and Digital Services number two
and number three that we just went
through have the most longevity they are
the ones that ultimately are going to
result in the biggest potential income
for you as a content creator or as a
brand on social media I also think that
they are probably thought of as the most
legitimate at least in terms of building
a business or building a brand online
but they both do require a decent amount
of work I think that digital products
require a little bit less work because
it's not ongoing with each coaching call
or each new client it's really just like
you create the digital product the
course the ebook one time and then you
can continue to distribute it but you do
need to make sure that you are
optimizing your funnels that you have
your email marketing in place that you
are continually promoting said product
or at least running advertisements to
promote said product and so I think that
there is a very large potential income
um but it also does require a few other
factors to you know keep that train
rolling along and so I think number two
and number three are great number one is
awesome as well I think that all three
of these could almost be interchangeably
mixed up and I would probably agree with
you but for this list I'm putting number
one as affiliate marketing affiliate
marketing is where I got my start in
making money online it allowed me to
practice the skills of selling things on
social media affiliate marketing is
essentially for those of you who don't
know selling or promoting products that
someone else has created and you get a
commission for each sale now of course
this does require customers this does
require some number of followers or
viewers who you are ultimately selling
to however one of the benefits of
affiliate marketing over your own
digital products or Services is that you
don't have to worry about anything
besides promoting the product you don't
have to worry about the upkeep you don't
have to worry about customer service you
don't have to worry about email funnels
you don't have to worry about any of
that all you have to do is get someone a
follower of yours to become a customer
or to purchase said product and then you
can get paid commission High ticket
affiliate marketing is a specific type
of affiliate marketing marting where you
are promoting expensive products and
those expensive products with a
relatively High commission 30 or 40% can
yield hundreds of dollars for each
payout sometimes even thousands of
dollars for each payout and that's why
the affiliate marketing industry as a
whole is worth $17 billion and it's
growing at 10% year-over-year also the
average affiliate marketer makes
8,38 per month from affiliate marketing
and one of my favorite things about
affiliate marketing is that unlike brand
Partnerships or even ugc you don't need
a very large following at all you don't
even need to be that great of a content
creator you just need a following that
truly cares about you that truly knows
you a tribe if you will a group of
people who has all bought into a
collective idea or a group of followers
who is more than just followers they're
a group of fans and one of the biggest
arguments that I can make for affiliate
marketing is that we are all in a way
affiliate marketers just without getting
paid and I say this because we're all
recommending things to our friends and
family all the time we're always telling
people what show they should watch what
book you just read that you love what
movie you should go check out what new
snack you just got from Trader Joe's
that you're obsessed with we're always
telling the people we love and care
about the things that we love and care
about and really that's what affiliate
marketing boils down to it's
recommending products that you know that
you trust and that you love to the
people your followers who you hopefully
know and trust and even love love I
would love to hear from you in the
comments down below this YouTube video
do you agree or do you disagree with my
top 10 how would you reorder this list
remember ultimately the way to
successfully build multiple streams of
income is one stream of income at a time
so pick one from this list or if you
already have a stream of income focus on
that until you've built it up to a level
of success and sustainability that can
run pretty much on autopilot and then
venture out into a new stream of income
thank you so much for listening today
and as always happy networking
[Music]